Let's talk about SNMP in general first.

You have basically 3 versions in use at this time.
SNMPv1
SNMPv2c
SNMPv3

All versions of SNMP need a polling and trap server IP specified (in this case, both are the OpenNMS monitoring server(s)).

SNMPv1 was obviously the first incarnation, and the data you will be able to retrieve for devices that only have this method is VERY minimal.
It's to hope that most vendors have at least migrated to SNMPv2c, even though vendors have a tendency to get lazy about updating OIDs within MIB files for making everything human readable.

Both SNMPv1 and SNMPv2c require what is called a community string.
As I said in the Dev notebook 0, don't use testhub, public or private as these are default.
Pick something unique and document it in your spreadsheet along with all your devices/IPs that are in monitoring for worst case scenarios.


SNMPv3 does NOT use a community string. It uses what is called Authentication and Privacy.

Authentication is a user/pass typically with an MD5 based  message-digets encryption algorithm producing a 128 bit hash value.
Authentication is the user/pass setup on the device that needs to be monitored, and those credentials setup for the IP of the node in the OpenNMS server.
Authentication is used for polling only.

Privacy typically uses an encryption algorithm of SHA and is for traps the device sends to the OpenNMS server.
The OpenNMS server does NOT have to poll the device to receieve traps from it.

Just as with SNMPv1 and SNMPv2c, SNMPv3 can be setup for polling, traps or both depending on your needs.

If you do NOT have a static IP setup for your OpenNMS server, and it's IP changes, the devices you have in monitoring will reject your poll, and your traps will go to the wrong server.
Just like traps which are one way sourcing from the device to the OpenNMS monitoring server, your NETFLOW and syslog coming from network gear is one way, so set a static IP for your OpenNMS server.

You typically do NOT want to set up SNMP on a workstation because of all of the false positives you can receive.
For servers that have specific purposes, you should place them in their own provisioning request based on the information you need to poll the device for.
The polling data comes from the Dev Notebook OpenNMS-Dev-Notebook-2-SNMP-Detection-and-Polling section of my github.
The event data in this same netbook is what translates OIDs into human readable information for the traps (most of the time).

SNMP uses UDP 161 (default for polling,) and UDP 162 (default for traps).

Be sure to check ANY firewall settings/rules on any software or hardware based firewall that could be dropping your traffic for polling devices, or receiving traps from them.

You may have to open a change/control ticket with your administrator and explain to them what you are doing if your Enterprise has never had a monitoring server before.


